Here I am in our project and if we have a look at our running application in the browser, we see this
is our application and in the menu, we got this enable notifications button.
Now this is a key button because before we can start using notifications, we need to request permission
to do so
and once we got permission to do so, we can display notifications.
So as a first step, I want to show you how to get access to notifications, how to get that permission,
though as a very first step,
let's check the browser support.
Here's an article in the Mozilla Developer Network on the notification API and I've a link to this in
the last lecture of this module of course, there if you scroll down all the way to the button, you will
notice that there is a browser support table and browser support for the base notification feature
is actually pretty decent,
only Internet Explorer is not supporting it.
Now browser support gets a bit worse if we have a look at how it is provided or supported in
service workers. There are we have less support, though it's still okay
and then we have different features we can configure for a given notification and there you also see that
support is highly depending on the browser.
Not all these options are supported, though
the good thing is and you will see this in this module, if you use a feature which is not supported,
it will fail without an issue, without an error.
It will just not show notification that way but show it in a more basic form which is absolutely fine.
On mobile, the support is also pretty decent,
so we can definitely use notifications.
Nonetheless I'll of course show you how to use them in a safe way by checking if the active browser does
support notifications.
With that, let's move on and let's ask for permission in the next lecture.